README.md, before:

[python]: https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3100/
[python-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10-blue.svg
[license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg


[![CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0][license-shield]][license]
[![Python 3.10][python-shield]][python]


# Power Flow Data of IEEE-118 Bus System


The repository contains a data pipeline to build power flow cases of an IEEE-118 like power system with an hourly frequency for one year.

The system consists of 118 buses, 186 branches (177 lines, 9 transformers), 91 loads, 321 generators, and looks as follows (other image formats can be found [here](resources/plot)).

![Power system plot](resources/plot/plot.png "Power system plot")

The prepared power flow cases can be used in research purposes for power flow analysis, static security analysis, etc.


## Data Preparation Steps

The pipeline for data preparation and building power flow cases is separated into stages:
- parse (extract necessary parameters from the raw data)
- transform (combine and convert data to use in further steps)
- prepare (compose final dataset to create power flow cases)
- build (create power flow cases using [the PandaPower engine](http://www.pandapower.org/))

The presented pipeline processes mainly a dataset described [in the paper "An Extended IEEE 118-Bus Test System With
High Renewable Penetration"](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7904729) (aka "NREL-118"). The NREL-118 dataset contains information about a power system based on the transmission representation of the IEEE-118 test system with a lot of modifications which are analyzed [in this notebook](https://nbviewer.org/github/evgenytsydenov/ieee118_power_flow_data/blob/main/notebooks/explore_nrel118_data.ipynb). To append the data with some additional info, the information about the IEEE-118 test system prepared by Illinois Institute of Technology (version of 2004) is also used (see [the JEAS-118 dataset](http://motor.ece.iit.edu/data/JEAS_IEEE118.doc)) in the stages.

Actions performed at each stage and all the assumptions made during the preparation process are described [in this notebook](https://nbviewer.org/github/evgenytsydenov/ieee118_power_flow_data/blob/main/notebooks/prepare_power_flow_data.ipynb). The naming of variables in the prepared data corresponds [to the project convention](convention.md).

To ensure the execution order and reproducibility of the stages, [Data Version Control](https://dvc.org/) is used. The configuration of the stages can be found [in the DVC config](dvc.yaml).


## How to Use

1. Download the source code (see [how to clone a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository)).
2. Go to the project directory, create and activate a virtual environment, install project dependencies [with poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/basic-usage/#installing-dependencies) or [pip](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/).
3. Run `main.py` script in the activated environment.
4. After completing all the stages, the power flow cases will be saved in the folder "samples" in the project directory.

Some parameters used in the computation are listed [in definitions](definitions.py) and can be tuned.


## License and Copyright

This work is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License][license].

Commit message:

Update: add link to the release page to readme

README.md, after:

[python]: https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3100/
[python-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10-blue.svg
[license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg


[![CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0][license-shield]][license]
[![Python 3.10][python-shield]][python]


# Power Flow Data of IEEE-118 Bus System


The repository contains a data pipeline to build power flow cases of an IEEE-118 like power system with an hourly frequency for one year.

The system consists of 118 buses, 186 branches (177 lines, 9 transformers), 91 loads, 321 generators, and looks as follows (other image formats can be found [here](resources/plot)).

![Power system plot](resources/plot/plot.png "Power system plot")

The prepared power flow cases can be used in research purposes for power flow analysis, static security analysis, etc.


## Data Preparation Steps

The pipeline for data preparation and building power flow cases is separated into stages:
- parse (extract necessary parameters from the raw data)
- transform (combine and convert data to use in further steps)
- prepare (compose final dataset to create power flow cases)
- build (create power flow cases using [the PandaPower engine](http://www.pandapower.org/))

The presented pipeline processes mainly a dataset described [in the paper "An Extended IEEE 118-Bus Test System With
High Renewable Penetration"](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7904729) (aka "NREL-118"). The NREL-118 dataset contains information about a power system based on the transmission representation of the IEEE-118 test system with a lot of modifications which are analyzed [in this notebook](https://nbviewer.org/github/evgenytsydenov/ieee118_power_flow_data/blob/main/notebooks/explore_nrel118_data.ipynb). To append the data with some additional info, the information about the IEEE-118 test system prepared by Illinois Institute of Technology (version of 2004) is also used (see [the JEAS-118 dataset](http://motor.ece.iit.edu/data/JEAS_IEEE118.doc)) in the stages.

Actions performed at each stage and all the assumptions made during the preparation process are described [in this notebook](https://nbviewer.org/github/evgenytsydenov/ieee118_power_flow_data/blob/main/notebooks/prepare_power_flow_data.ipynb). The naming of variables in the prepared data corresponds [to the project convention](convention.md).

To ensure the execution order and reproducibility of the stages, [Data Version Control](https://dvc.org/) is used. The configuration of the stages can be found [in the DVC config](dvc.yaml).


## How to Use

Power flow cases built using the latest release version of the pipeline can be downloaded [from the release page](https://github.com/evgenytsydenov/ieee118_power_flow_data/releases/latest) (see, the "Samples" archives).

To customize the pipeline or to build power flow cases manually:
1. Download the source code [from the latest release](https://github.com/evgenytsydenov/ieee118_power_flow_data/releases/latest) or [clone the repository](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository).
2. Go to the project directory, create and activate a virtual environment, install project dependencies [with poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/basic-usage/#installing-dependencies) or [pip](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/).
3. Add customizations or tune parameters that are listed [in definitions](definitions.py) and used in the computation.
4. Run `main.py` script in the activated environment. It is also possible to add the project directory to `PYTHONPATH` and run `dvc repro` in the terminal.
5. After completing all the stages, the power flow cases will be saved in the folder "samples" in the project directory.


## License and Copyright

This work is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License][license].
